The immune system is the body's defense against foreign agents like viruses!
Viruses are not actually alive, since they can only reproduce by hijacking cell machinery.
All cells of the immune system are different types of white blood cells.
All white blood cells are born in bone marrow, although they may finish development elsewhere in the body.
Macrophages are phagocytes - a type of white blood cell that engulfs foreign particles such as viruses. The process of engulfing particles is called phagocytosis.
Macrophages were first discovered by Elie Metchnikoff, a Russian zoologist, in 1884.
Macrophages identify targets based on proteins on the surface of the particle - if the particle doesn't show body cell proteins, it's phagocytosis time.
Once activated, B cells secrete antibodies into the blood stream. Antibodies bind to foreign particles to allow macrophages to easily identify them.
Antibodies are a class of Y-shaped proteins that are secreted to bind to foreign particle. Different types of antibodies bind to different particles.
Antibodies are glycoproteins, meaning that they are proteins that have carbohydrate (sugar) chains attached to them. 
B Cells can be activated either by binding directly to a foreign particle or by Helper T cells. Once activated, they turn into plasma cells.
Antigens are any foreign agent that antibodies can bind to.
Macrophages activate Helper T cells by displaying pieces of the agents it engulfs for the Helper T cells to bind to.
B and T cells are called lymphocytes since they are primarily found in the lymphatic system of the body.
T cells - both Helper and Killer - fully mature in the thymus gland.
Killer T cells are also known as Cytotoxic T Cells, since they release cytotoxins to kill infected cells.
Similar to macrophages, killer T cells recognize their targets by proteins on the surface of infected cells.
After B cells and Helper T cells are activated and defeat an infection, some of them are turned into memory cells to aid in the case of a second infection.
Memory cells stay in the body for years, and will allow the body to quickly respond to an infection that it has already seen.
Vaccines simulate an infection in order to stimulate the development of memory cells so that the body can easily defeat a real infection.